Update  README (#774)
music-encoding/music-encoding: README.md

# Structure of this repository

This repository contains all the source code of the MEI Schema and Guidelines:

 * [.github](.github): Configuration files for Github Actions workflows.
 * [customizations](customizations): TEI ODD files that allow you to build customized MEI schemata.
 * [source](source): Contains the source code, as expressed in TEI ODD. This includes the source code for the MEI Guidelines, and the MEI schema modules.
 * [submodules](submodules): A container for Git Submodules, that is third party developments that are needed for e.g. building this repository's contents, but not part of our codebase.
 * [tests](tests): Unit tests for the MEI Schemata.
 * [utils](utils): Helper scripts e.g. for compiling schemata and guidelines from this repository.

**!ATTENTION!**

> For the sake of a a continuous integration (CI) workflow, the build artifacts of the schemata and guidelines are no longer included in this repository, but are generated on every commit to the develop branch and automatically pushed to their dedicated repositories. For more information please see the section [Additional Resources](#additional-resources) below.

Reviewer: Typo: a a.  Should probably be "the" -- "for the sake of **the** continuous..."

# Structure of this repository

This repository contains all the source code of the MEI Schema and Guidelines:

 * .github: Configuration files for Github Actions workflows.
 * customizations: TEI ODD files that allow you to build customized MEI schemata.
 * source: Contains the source code, as expressed in TEI ODD. This includes the source code for the MEI Guidelines, and the MEI schema modules.
 * submodules: A container for Git Submodules, that is third party developments that are needed for e.g. building this repository's contents, but not part of our codebase.
 * tests: Unit tests for the MEI Schemata.

>  * utils: Helper scripts e.g. for compiling schemata and guidelines from this repository.

Author: maybe ;-/

**!ATTENTION!**

> The prebuild schema files no longer exist in this repository, since reintegrating the guidelines and configuring a continuous integration workflow the build artifacts of this repository (Schemata and Guidelines) are being generated on every commit to the develop branch and automatically pushed to separate repositories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the sake of a a continuous integration (CI) workflow, the build artifacts of the schemata and guidelines are no longer included in this repository, but are generated on every commit to the develop branch and automatically pushed to their dedicated repositories:
```

* Schema: https://github.com/music-encoding/schema

> * Guidelines: https://github.com/music-encoding/guidelines

Reviewer 2: There are no links in the Markdown, but GH will display them as links, right?

The MEI takes a different approach. With the customization system, schemas may be generated from an existing "library" of well-defined musical behaviours, but each behaviour may be mixed and matched according to the needs of the notation. In this sense, the MEI source functions more as a "library" of music encoding tools from which many different types of notation can be expressed, and not just a single monolithic schema.

# Building MEI

The MEI Source is not a schema in itself; rather, it can be used to build customized schemas, such as mei-CMN, mei-Mensural, mei-all, etc. (also see [Customizing MEI](#customizing-mei)).

Nevertheless it is possible to build any customization locally in your working copy of this repository. In order to do so follow the steps below:

> 1. Create a recursive clone of this repository

Reviewer: Why create a recursive clone? Perhaps a note about pulling in the TEI stylesheets?

Reviewer 3: Thanks, @ahankinson!

@bwbohl, I am not very familiar with this, would you mind taking a look at this? thank you!

Author: done, thanks @ahankinson for bringing this up!

   * If you do not have a clone on your local machine yet run the following from your command line:

     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/music-encoding/music-encoding.git --recursive
     ```
     
   * If you already have a clone on your system you still might have to initialize the submodules by running the following commands from the command line:

     Switch to your clone's directory:
     ```bash
     cd [YOUR-CLONE-LOCATION]
     ```
     Initialize the submodules:
     ```bash
     git submodule init
     ```
     Update the submodules:
     ```bash
     git submodule update
     ```

> 2. Check if your system meets the build requisites

Reviewer: "prerequisites" or "requirements"

Author: done

>    * Is Java 8 or above available on your machine?

Reviewer 3: Same case here, @bwbohl. Would you mind taking a look at this one too?
thank you :)

>    * Is Java 8 or above available on your machine?

Author: done

    $> jing schemata/mei-CMN.rng "sample-encodings/MEI 3.0/Music/Complete\ examples/Bach_Ein_festeBurg.mei"

# Customizing MEI

> To create your own customization, you should understand the building and customization process. The MEI Schema may be customized to express and validate different types of music documents. These customizations are controlled by customization  By default, MEI includes five customizations:

Reviewer 2: > These customizations are controlled by customization 

What does that mean?

Author: thanks for the catch!

# Customizing MEI

To create your own customization, you should understand the building and customization process. The MEI Schema may be customized to express and validate different types of music documents. These customizations are configured with individual ODD files. This repository already includes several customizations:

 * mei-all: The full MEI Schema. This is the most permissive version of MEI.
 * mei-CMN: Validates MEI files that express common Western music notation.
 * mei-Mensural: Validates MEI files that express white Mensural notation (will raise validation errors if elements like "measure" exist in the MEI encoding).
 * mei-Neumes: Validates MEI files that express Neume notation (like Mensural, will raise validation errors if elements that are not part of neume notation exist in an encoding.)

>  * mei-basic: A very restricted version of MEI for minimum compatibility and exchangeability scenarios.

Reviewer 2: Not sure, but couldn't this be misread as "a minimum of compatibility..." in terms of lowest possible compatibility? (That would be quite the opposite of the intended purpose...) Would the statement work without "minimum"?

Author: what about copying what the documentation says: „The purpose of mei-Basic is to serve as common ground for data interchange, both between projects using different profiles of MEI, and other encoding schemes“

Reviewer 2: Yes, great. Like "A very restricted cusomization of MEI to serve as common ground for..." ?

Just recognized that we speak of "version of MEI" here multiple times. Shouldn't that be customization or profile instead?

Author: replaced the sentence and removed "version" from description of mei-all

Nevertheless it is possible to build any customization locally in your working copy of this repository. In order to do so follow the steps below:

1. Create a recursive clone of this repository

   * If you do not have a clone on your local machine yet run the following from your command line:

     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/music-encoding.git --recursive
     ```
     
   * If you already have a clone on your system you still might have to initialize the submodules by running the following commands form the command line:

     Switch to your clone's directory:
     ```bash
     cd [YOUR-CLONE-LOCATION]
     ```
     Initialize the submodules:
     ```bash
     git submodules init
     ```
     Update the submodules:
     ```bash
     git submodules update
     ```
2. Check if your system meets the build requisites

   * Is Java 8 or above available on your machine?
   
     ```bash
     java -version
     ```
   
   * Is Apache Ant installed?

     ```bash
     ant -version
     ```
   
2. Initialize the build process

   * Switch to your clone's directory:
   ```bash
   cd [YOUR-CLONE-LOCATION]
   ```
   

>    * Call the Aache Ant init task:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Call the Apache Ant init task:
```

     Switch to your clone's directory:
     ```bash
     cd [YOUR-CLONE-LOCATION]
     ```
     Initialize the submodules:
     ```bash
     git submodules init
     ```
     Update the submodules:
     ```bash
     git submodules update
     ```
2. Check if your system meets the build requisites

   * Is Java 8 or above available on your machine?
   
     ```bash
     java -version
     ```
   
   * Is Apache Ant installed?

     ```bash
     ant -version
     ```
   
2. Initialize the build process

   * Switch to your clone's directory:
   ```bash
   cd [YOUR-CLONE-LOCATION]
   ```
   
   * Call the Apache Ant init task:
   ```bash
   ant init
   ```

4. Run the build process

   * Build guidelines HTML:
   ```bash
   ant -lib lib/saxon/saxon9he.jar build-guidelines-html
   ```

   * Build a specific customization's RNG schema:
   ```bash
   ant -lib lib/saxon/saxon9he.jar -Dcustomization.path=[PATH/TO/YOUR/CUSTOMIZATION] build-rng
   ```

   * Build everything (all customizations shipped with tis repository, compiled ODDs for each customization, guidelines HTML):
   ```bash
   ant -lib lib/saxon/saxon9he.jar
   ```

# Additional Resources

> Samples of MEI-encoded files are available in the [sample-encodings](https://github.com/music-encoding/sample-encodings) repository, and tools for working with and converting to and from other formats and MEI are available in the [encoding-tools](https://github.com/music-encoding/encoding-tools) project.

Reviewer 2: > ..., and tools for working with and converting to and from other formats and MEI ...

That's not very easy to read. Maybe:

..., and a number of helpful tools for working with MEI documents (mainly XSLT Stylesheets for transformation of encodings or for conversion to and from other formats) are available...

Reviewer 2: Additionally, this information is still doubled in L28?

Author: guess that's fixed
